We’ve been working on the project
almost 12 months now.
I had a limited knowledge
of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Occasionally, they knock on the door.
We only see one small part of you
when you’re coming around the streets
and you’re knocking on doors.
I didn’t even know they did
these sorts of projects.
Then I’ve learned that they’ve been
all over the world doing these,
the same sort of thing.
I’ve never been on a site
that’s as well-run as this one.
The cleanliness of the actual site
is, you know, impeccable.
It seems a very, very well-organized site.
The planning of the whole thing . . .
Yes.
. . . the walkways, the routes in and out
—it’s all been exemplary.
It’s been an experience
—a good one, I might add.
It’s opened my eyes
to a lot of different ways of working.
When I found out
that most of the people on this site
were volunteers, I was quite amazed.
It was very clear that Watchtower
put so much time into their people
in terms of bringing them on,
putting the skills in,
and making them capable of doing
the job that they wanted to do.
And that training and that time,
it was just superb to see.
This fellow sitting next to me,
when I explained to him, you know,
that volunteers were working here,
he didn’t believe me.
And everyone we speak to,
there’s just no chance they would believe us
as to what we see and what we experience
—which has been good.
You’ve got ladies driving
diggers and big dumpers.
And it’s not very often you see that.
Construction is still
a male-dominated environment,
but to actually come on-site
and see the number of women
that are actually operating
the plant and actually involved
in the cold-face construction,
it’s fantastic.
It proves that they’re able to do
as good a job and—walking around this site
(I’m going to be honest with you)
—probably a better job in many instances.
It’s amazing how everyone
is just really nice
and just seems so relaxed
and are just genuinely
really, really, nice people.
You always got a “Hello.”
You always got a “Goodbye.”
You always were asked how you were doing.
When you go back home, you feel different.
You don’t have that feeling
—that stress—on top of you.
We came here the first time,
and it was almost
(to my mind) like a film set.
Everyone seemed happy all the time,
and it didn’t seem possible
that it could happen.
Yeah, and it’s just continued for the last
—what?—eight months, nine months
since I have been here.
And it’s always happy,
and no one can fake that.
It’s great to see people that are
just really positive about everything,
which in a sometimes negative society
when you pick up the papers
and look at the news—
It’s just when you come here
—it’s just—it puts a smile on your face.
It’s just been a warmer,
friendlier experience.
All the health and safety
and the briefings—they’re all still done.
How can you build so fast
and so accurately with such quality, though?
And that’s what’s blown our minds.
Most of the people on-site don’t have
the skills when they first come here,
and they’re doing work as good
as some of our guys who’ve probably
been employed six or seven years.
The communication has been fantastic.
It’s a two-way conversation
when problems arise;
it’s not always a fight over money.
It’s just working with each other.
There’s not an argument over everything.
If something is not right,
you work together to get over the problem.
To see everyone here together
all striving for the same goal is fantastic.
I think what’s made it great for us,
working with Watchtower,
is that everything they want to do,
they want to do it right.
And they do everything
with passion and energy,
and it’s something
that we like to do ourselves, as well.
I’ve built The Gherkin in the city;
I’ve built Wembley Stadium
—big projects, big status—
and we’ve pretty much seen the cusp
of other professionals out there.
You would not know the difference.
And being volunteer
and nonprofit (I would say),
it’s been absolutely
incredible to see, really.
We’ve learned how to work together
with other people on-site;
we’ve learned how to work with people
that haven’t been in construction before.
Just keeping it honest and straightforward
sort of solves a lot of problems.
We wish it would be like
that everywhere else,
because, you know, it’s unheard of, really.
We’ve learned more on this site
than we’ve learned on any site
about working with each other,
probably in 23 years.
I’ve had an enjoyable experience
working with Jehovah’s Witnesses.
If there was a chance
to come up with another project,
I’d definitely be more than willing
to want to get involved.
I wish all sites could be like this
because my life would be a lot easier.
You need to get people to come to this site;
there would be a definite difference
in the way people
perceive Jehovah’s Witnesses.
It’s certainly opened and broadened my mind
to what Jehovah’s Witnesses do.
And what’s changed my opinion
of your organization most
is that you do exactly what you preach,
and I mean exactly:
you’re friendly, you’re forthright,
you’re very truthful.
I’ve never been
on any other project like this,
not at all.
I just wish
all construction sites were like that.
It would be a nicer place to live and work.